Layout:
1. Welcome people back
2. What have I been doing?
3. Talk about adding bots
4. How I added it all!!

Welcome back to another update on Snowsnatch. It bbeen nearly 2 months since my last video.

In my previous video I mentioned that I wanted to create bots so that people who didn't have any friends to play with could still try out the game. So thats what I had been beening on the past 2 months. Uni started again... but I'm doing only 1 subject so I can still spent most of my time working on this game!!!

BY THE WAY... this game is intended to be played by 2 PLAYERS. The bot is there if u reallly want to play but have no one else to play with. Because although i tried really hard to make the best bot ever, its still not that hard to beat. And thats lots of tricks and loopholes u can probably figure out to defeat easily.




Ok firstly to create a bot I had to learn how to implement an A* search algorithm in my game. A* search is just an algorthim that finds a path from a starting position and ending position.

Once my algorithm was working correctly I created a bot player that used the algorithm to calculate a path to the flag. It will then walk to the flag following the path it generated. Once the detects that it has gotten the flag, it will do the opposite and WALK BACK HOME and cap the flag.
Holy shitt!! how cool is that?? Oh.. i also made it shoot randomly for now.


Ok next I took some time and coded the bot to dodge Snowballs. This was took a long time because I there were many bugs and I had to finetune it so that it worked most of the time. The bot would detect if a snowball was coming in its way and predict if it would hit it in the future. If it does, the bot would either dodge to the side OR stop moving in order to not get hit.

Once that was done, I implemented the bot's attack mode. The bot detects if the player is within range or rows and will go align itself to shoot at the player. Then it will continue doing what it was doing.

I added a new state for the bot which was to get crates for weapons. If it had a snowgun... it would go get a crate. Thats it.

Btw.. I'm actually skipping alot of minor details... but it kinda makes it sound like i did these all in 1 day... but no. It look a long while...


When testing with various players I noticed that because the bot is dumb, players would just rush and grab the flag and just avoid the bot. SO to counter this I made it so that if the bot detects the enemy trying to grab the flag, AND if the bot is in range, AtTACK more often.




PERFECTT!! After that, it was time to teach the bot how to use all the weapons I have. Each weapon is different, so i was going to have to slightly change the way the bot used it. This part took the longest... because every weapon. I had to make sure the bot was able to avoid them.. and at the same time use them as effectively as it could

For example. the snowgun. The bot jhas to detect if the enemy is a few rows away and the align itself and shoot. BUT for the shotgun, the bot has to be a certain range away because otherwise the bulelts won't even hit the player.

Another example is the MINE. I made the bot place mines, BUT also try to avoid them on the map when pathfinding. In some cases it is unavoidable, where mines are everywhere. So the bot will just kamikaze.



And... that is basically how I coded up the whole bot!

Final review:
And that basically wraps it up for the bot.
-Over time I was able to create a bot can capture the flag, shoot the player and dodge bullets. I feel it good enough to be able to beat people that don't play games, but for all hardcore gamers this bot probably would be considered easy to defeat. It's not the best bot I've made but I'm proud that I was able to build it. Good experience.





-Bot using shotgun, lasergun.... and also dodging other sorts of weapons
-Taught bot to places mines!!
-Bot can also detect and try to avoid mines if possible

